# Hacking Web Servers
> A web server is a computer system that stores, processes, and delivers web pages to global clients via HTTP protocol. A web server attack typically involves preplanned activities, called an attack methodology, which the attacker implements to reach their goal of breaching the target web server’s security.


Overview of Web Server:
- Most people think a web server is just hardware, but a web server also includes software applications. In general, a client initiates the communication process through HTTP requests. When a client wants to access any resource such as web pages, photos, or videos, then the client’s browser generates an HTTP request to the web server. Depending on the request, the web server collects the requested information or content from data storage or the application servers and responds to the client’s request with an appropriate HTTP response. If a web server cannot find the requested information, then it generates an error message.

Web Server Footprinting:
- By performing web server footprinting, it is possible to gather valuable system-level data such as account details, OS, software versions, server names, and database schema details. Use Telnet utility to footprint a web server and gather information such as server name, server type, OSes, and applications running. Use footprinting tools such as Netcraft, ID Serve, and httprecon to perform web server footprinting. Web server footprinting tools such as Netcraft, ID Serve, and httprecon can extract information from the target server. Let us look at the features and the types of information these tools can collect from the target server.


Information Gathering using Ghost Eye:
- Ghost Eye is an information-gathering tool written in Python 3. To run, Ghost Eye only needs a domain or IP. Ghost Eye can work with any Linux distros if they support Python 3.
- Ghost Eye gathers information such as Whois lookup, DNS lookup, EtherApe, Nmap port scan, HTTP header grabber, Clickjacking test, Robots.txt scanner, Link grabber, IP location finder, and traceroute.


Perform Web Server Reconnaissance using Skipfish:
- Skipfish is an active web application (deployed on a webserver) security reconnaissance tool. It prepares an interactive sitemap for the targeted site by carrying out a recursive crawl and dictionary-based probes. The resulting map is then annotated with the output from a number of active (but hopefully non-disruptive) security checks. The final report generated by the tool is meant to serve as a foundation for professional web application security assessments.


Footprint a Web Server using the httprecon Tool:
- Web applications can publish information, interact with Internet users, and establish an e-commerce or e-government presence. However, if an organization is not rigorous in configuring and operating its public website, it may be vulnerable to a variety of security threats. Although the threats in cyberspace remain largely the same as in the physical world (fraud, theft, vandalism, and terrorism), they are far more dangerous. Organizations can face monetary losses, damage to reputation, and legal action if an intruder successfully violates the confidentiality of their data.
- httprecon is a tool for advanced web server fingerprinting. This tool performs banner-grabbing attacks, status code enumeration, and header ordering analysis on its target web server.


Crack FTP Credentials using a Dictionary Attack:
- A dictionary or wordlist contains thousands of words that are used by password cracking tools to break into a password-protected system. An attacker may either manually crack a password by guessing it or use automated tools and techniques such as the dictionary method. Most password cracking techniques are successful, because of weak or easily guessable passwords.
- hydra -L /home/attacker/Desktop/Wordlists/Usernames.txt -P /home/attacker/Desktop/Wordlists/Passwords.txt ftp://[IP Address of Windows 11]









































































